So, uh, one of the uh, well the brightest
gamma ray line on the sky, uh, is created
when electrons and positrons annihilate.
And that makes a five and eleven kilo-electron
volt line.
So these units, by the way an electron volt
is simply the energy that an electron has
when it moves across a potential of one volt.
So if you have a nine volt battery, an electron
in that battery goes around a circuit, it
had nine electron volts.
Okay.
So, uh, these are five hundred and eleven
thousand electron volts, so they're rather
higher energy.
And that's usually the lowest energy thing
we would refer to as a gamma ray, and then
they go up many orders of magnitude above
that.
They also get created by radioactive elements
decaying.
To astronomers, aluminum twenty-six is a very
interesting element.
Maybe most of you don't worry about aluminum
twenty-six every day, but it gets created
in supernovae.
Um, so, here are two maps, this is a map of
the five eleven kv line.
Kv lines.
So this is actually positrons annihilating
in our galaxy, full sky map.
You see there are a lot of positrons in the
center of the galaxy and not much elsewhere,
and that's interesting we still don't actually
know where these come from.
Uh, they've been observed for over thirty
years, we don't know what's going on.
Uh, here's another one, this one we do know
what's going on, this is the aluminum twenty-six
line if you tune your gamma ray telescope
to one point eight million electron volts
you see this line for aluminum, and that's
very informative, because, uh, star blows
up and creates aluminum twenty-six, and then
it has a half-life of about a million years,
so within a million years, you see this gamma
ray line, and by making a map of this, we're
really mapping where the supernovae in the
galaxy are, on a very large scale, and of
course this is the galactic plane, it looks
like that because we live in the Milky Way
and you're in the disk galaxy, so when you
look at it you see this.